# Edge Router
An edge router is a network router located at the boundary of a network. It connects internal networks to external networks like the Internet, handling the routing of packets, performing network address translation (NAT), enforcing security through firewalls, supporting quality of service (QoS), and enabling virtual private networks (VPNs). It plays a vital role in connecting networks and providing connectivity, security, and control over network traffic.

# What is OSPF
It a link-state protocol that uses several different packets to exchange the information about network topology between routers.

These packets are called link-state advertisements (LSAs), and they describe the network topology in great detail. Each router stores the received LSA packets in the link-state database (LSDB). After LSDBs are synced between the routers, OSPF uses the shortest path first (SPF) algorithm to calculate the best routes. 

The best intra-area routes are calculated individually by each OSPF router. For the best interarea route calculation, the internal router must rely also on the best path information received from the ABRs.


# LSA types 

* **Type 1, Router LSA**
Every router generates router link advertisements for each area to which it belongs. Router link advertisements describe the state of the router links to the area and are flooded only within that particular area. For all types of LSAs, there are 20-byte LSA headers. One of the fields of the LSA header is the link-state ID. The link-state ID of the type 1 LSA is the originating router ID.

* **Type 2, Network LSA** 
DRs generate network link advertisements for multiaccess networks. Network link advertisements describe the set of routers that are attached to a particular multiaccess network. Network link advertisements are flooded in the area that contains the network. The link-state ID of the type 2 LSA is the IP interface address of the DR.

* **Type 3, Summary LSA:**
An ABR takes the information that it learned in one area and describes and summarizes it for another area in the summary link advertisement. This summarization is not on by default. The link-state ID of the type 3 LSA is the destination network number.

* **Type 4, ASBR Summary LSA:**
The ASBR summary link advertisement informs the rest of the OSPF domain how to get to the ASBR. The link-state ID includes the router ID of the described ASBR.

* **Type 5, Autonomous System LSA:** 
Autonomous system external link advertisements, which are generated by ASBRs, describe routes to destinations that are external to the autonomous system. They get flooded everywhere, except into special areas. The link-state ID of the type 5 LSA is the external network number.

* **Type 6**
Specialized LSAs that are used in multicast OSPF applications

* **Type 7**
Used in special area type NSSA for external routes

* **Type 8, 9** 
Used in OSPFv3 for link-local addresses and intra-area prefix

* **Type 10, 11** 
Generic LSAs, also called opaque, which allow future extensions of OSPF


## Information in a network without a designated router

## Information in a network with a designated router


## Note
Both eBGP and iBGP use TCP for exchanging routing updates.

# eBGP (External Border Gateway Protocol)

- used for communication between routers in different autonomous systems.
- used to connect an AS to its neighboring ASes.
- an exterior gateway protocol used to exchange routing information between ASes.
- responsible for advertising and learning routes to external networks outside of the AS.
- performs path selection based on policies configured by network administrators.

# iBGP (Internal Border Gateway Protocol)

- used for communication between routers within the same autonomous system.
- an interior gateway protocol used for exchanging routing information within an AS.
- allows all routers within an AS to have consistent routing information.
- used to distribute external routing information learned from eBGP to internal routers.
- forms full mesh or partial mesh connections between routers within the AS.